>> Steve Kinney: With
stuff like retrieval,
augmented generation of prompts,
effectively,
that's where you take your own data,
you turn it into a bunch of vectors,
you store it in a database,
a vector database, a database of numbers.
And then if you were to say, hey, I wanna
augment this prop I'm sending to ChatGPT,
you would use the same tokenization and
embedding.
You turn your own prompt into numbers,
find your own content that you
would also turn to numbers.
The vector database does effectively
what the transformer is doing.
It finds the chunks of your own text
that are relevant to your prompt and
then kind of like just puts the text
onto the end of your prompt.
And to give you automatically
take maybe all swaths of data.
In fact,
if you open up something like Claude and
you hook it up into Google Drive,
that's effectively what it's doing, right?
It's kind of taking your data,
vectorizing it, and then figuring
out what stuff matches and appending it
onto the query to give it more context.
So even if you're not building your own
transformers, which most of you are not,
you probably shouldn't be building
your own vector database.
I did the other week,
I can't recommend it.
It works on indexeddb.
That was pretty cool.
But you can actually kind of use.
These are the same ways that vector
databases work for basically creating
a search engine for your own data that
you then use on top of these prompts.
So like that idea of turning stuff
into tokens, turning into IDs,
figuring out the pieces of your content
that match is the same concept that you
can use to kind of build
your own knowledge.
Query systems that augment ChatGPT or
Claude or Gemini.
And that is somewhat of a segue to
actually seeing how this attention stuff
works in action.
So I am going to install
some dependencies.
They're nothing particularly crazy,
except for
this bertviz, which will
visualize some of these tokens or
the embeddings and
show you how they can relate.
Cool, cool, cool.
Here's some of the examples from
previously and some of the notes that I
then later turned into slides so
we can move past some of that.
And so here we have the cat sat on
the mat and the dog sat on the park,
played in the park.
And what this library
will do is it's basically
just a way to show you the semantic
relationships between the words.
And so I'll go ahead and hit play,
even though it's already loaded.
But just to make my point, and
you can change any of these
sentences in this Playground.
So if you don't have it open,
come on over,
open it up and play around with
some of these sentences and
we can see like how two different
sentences maybe relate or don't relate.
Cool, so right now it's going to
install some dependencies for me,
even though I had a chart that
I could have just looked at.
It's okay, it'll be here in one second.
But what this will do is like
take two of our sentences, right?
Two different strings of
text that technically,
I guess these are technically
not different lengths.
Even though I'm not sure how
the tokens will work on that.
We're gonna tokenize both of them, right?
And we'll get the outputs and then we're
going to kind of like visualize how they
relate to each other and we'll try
out with a different one in a second.
Getting impatient, could have hit that.
Could have just not re.
Hit the button.
But here we are.
So we're PIP installing.
Hold on,
who doesn't like a good NPM install or
PIP install at the beginning of
trying to get anything done?
So we are downloading some dependencies.
>> Speaker 2: Does it pull everything
down by default every time or
is it smart enough to cache
stuff if it already has it?
>> Steve Kinney: So on the Google Colab
side, if you are running the instance and
you don't disconnect,
it'll have this stuff.
But if you start it up cold and
you get a brand new VM,
you will download the dependencies again.
The thing that I am not doing
on purpose is you can actually
have all the outputs saved.
So you could theoretically run all
your data, produce all your graphs,
all your outputs, send it to your buddy.
They will see the outputs without
having to rerun the code.
But if you want to run the code, you will
most likely get a very fresh VM Right now
if the VM is running and
you're still connected to it, great.
But if you get a fresh VM is
like getting a blank slate.
You will install
everything all over again.
Now, some libraries like Torch,
like I think the Hugging face Transformers
library are just baked in and already.
And there's a Docker container where
you have certain things set up already.
Some of them you will
have to pull in yourself.
>> Speaker 2: What about persistent disk?
Could you write dependencies there and
then pull them in from the disk?
Or is it.
>> Steve Kinney: My sense of my
own experience is no, right?
I've watched this.
It's tricky cuz there is a difference
between if you do restart session and
run all, yes.
If you go into runtime and
you hit disconnect and delete runtime, no.
And then the question is
that if I send it to you,
I don't think you get my runtime, right?
So ish, right, cool.
So now we can run that and we can see.
In this case, at any given point,
you can hover over and
see kind of the relationship
between two words.
So here we've got the two
various different sentences.
There's not a lot of overlap between the
stuff we have in the cat sat on the mat
and the dog played in the park.
There's not a lot of lines getting
drawn there at all other than to
the beginning of sentence and
end of sentence separators.
However, if we change
the strings a little bit and
we can say these rob the bank,
we run it again.
Obviously, there's a lot more
interrelationship between these tokens.
This is visualizing what Bert
is doing under the hood.
Obviously, the could be related
to all these thieves and robbed.
A pretty tight relationship.
But bank, as you can see,
has got a line down to river.
I understand anyone looking at this giant
screen is not seeing it nearly as well as
I am on mine.
So there is a little bit
of a contrast issue here.
But you got it, yeah, on that screen,
it becomes a little harder to see
if you're in the room with me.
But if you pull up the notebook
yourself and take it for a spin,
you will see them in a little more
clarity than it shows on the screen.
But for
those watching the livestream or later,
we can see that in given cases,
there is a line between bank and robbed.
If we look at bank, we get a line
apparently robbed is probably showing up
more than river in a lot of context.
And like, you can see, basically,
this is visualizing for Bert some of
the relationships between all of the words
and how they kind of relate to each other.
So you can kind of just see how
some of those have been, like,
correlated through the, like,
millions of knob turns over time as it
tries to figure out some of that meaning.
And like I said, what we're building
towards is eventually we're
gonna take GPT2 medium and
we're gonna feed it a large data set of,
I think, like, 16,000 quotes.
And those quotes are all
gonna be a certain format.
It's gonna be like, quote from Oscar
Wilde, and then it's gonna be colon and
then some quotes, right?
And we're gonna see it as we kinda train
it and we can just feed it a ton of them.
With the expected outputs,
we're gonna see that we can kind
of strengthen those relationships.
And all of a sudden we'll go from like,
who knows what comes out when we
start a sentence with that too.
Even if it's a made up quote,
it will be in the format that we expect.
It will have quotations around it.
Because the act of sending all of those
things and training it to be like,
this is what I want.
Nope, Slap it on the wrist.
This is what I want.
And you can again tune those parameters
to actually build those relationships up.
Cool, so it's just a way to visualize,
try it out with some different strings,
like things that are widely related, words
that have different meanings, so on and
so forth.
And you can kind of like get a sense and
play around with it as well.
Different things.
Like other, like, dual meanings of
words are worth trying as well.
Right.
I don't know, this one will work.
And I.
I'm already hitting the end of my sports
knowledge.
Right.
Like, I guess stealing first base and
stealing diamonds is the same thing.
I don't know why my
mind is going to crime.
>> Speaker 2: First base.
>> Steve Kinney: What's that?
>> Speaker 2: You can't steal first base.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah, that's true.
See, this is why I can't do sports
metaphors in these workshops.
Because already.
>> Speaker 2: They don't tag you.
Isn't that a thing?
That's not stealing first base.
>> Steve Kinney: Okay, all right,
we're abandoning the sports metaphors.
Okay.
I clearly can't even make us.
Like, that was a safe part of this.
That was my second one.
Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Steal second,
third, and home.
>> Steve Kinney: All right, all right.
No more sports metaphors.
Play around with this.
See how some of the words.
But like, the neat part is you can,
like, get a sense of, like,
seeing like, how this model is tuned.
>> Speaker 2: What does the levels mean?
Where it's at or the layer.
Layer.
Cuz I was playing around with that.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah.
I'm not like, let's see.
>> Speaker 2: Go to like,
layer two or layer.
Yeah.
And then go take a look.
>> Steve Kinney: I'm not totally
sure off the top of my head.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Steve Kinney: Yep, but
I do know that the visuals
are a lot better, right?
It's probably as it's going through,
like the various, like.
Yeah.
Cause look how, like, that's interesting.
Like, I'm not totally sure on that one.
It's probably as like, I'm guessing
as it goes through each layer.
I'm curious, like,
if I grabbed a different model, like,
if we would get more layers and
stuff like that.
That'd be fascinating.